# Latinx-representation-tv-film
A project to measure the influence/footprint Latinx culture has had on film and television.

Initially, when I came up with the idea for this project I had hoped to use data involving biographies for fictional characters. The plan was to compile a list of Latinx actors, take note of what movies these actors have been present in, and then using character biographies measure the degree to which Latinx have played roles that employ racial tropes; e.g latin lover, male exhibiting machismo, latinx drug dealer, spicy/hypersexual latina, etc. Furthermore, I wanted to observe what words were most prevalent in describing these characters; I was concerned with descriptions for personality traits, physique, and backstory. Unfortunately, the data that I was looking for did not exist. What I did have access to was quotes compiled by IMDb--Internet Movie Database. Using this data, I instead measured the influence and presence of Latinx culture in film and television. I compiled a list of basic Spanish vocabulary, words of prejudice geared toward Latinx, and foods commonly associated with Latinx. By measuring the frequency of these words at different decades, I was able to get a rough understanding of the on-screen identity that was being constructed for Latinx. 

I want to mention that the list I compiled was initially much larger as I was optimistic and naive. I included more than just Cuba(n), Puerto Ric(a/n), and Mexic(o/an) but after some basic investigation of the quotes file, I observed that many of the other nationalities/countries were not present. I had hoped to include cuisine specific to many different Latinx countries but once again they were not present. The only foods that ended up being statistically significant were tacos and burritos, as they have become popular in America and are closely associated with Mexican culture despite the fact that these foods aren't a staple in Mexican cuisine. 


When studying the word clouds, one can observe that out of Mexico, Cuba, and Puerto Rico, Mexico has largest frequency/occurrence. This is unsurprising considering the long established history Mexico has had with the United States as well as the long history of Mexican immigration to the U.S. What is interesting to note is the prominence of the slur 'spic' in both the eighties and nineties compared to the 2000s. I suppose this marks a shift in thinking and treatment of Latinx people. 

**It is important to keep in mind the frequency of each word is being compared only to the frequencies of the other words in my list. In other words, the frequencies of the words in my list relative to every other words in the quotes source file are so small as to be negligible. They would not make an appearance on a word cloud generated from the quotes file. Thus it was important to consider my list as the sample space. Even though each word in my list is insignificant relative to the entire quotes file, relative to each other we get to see which words hold more weight. Specifically, we see what aspects of Latinx culture or language are pushed to the forefront. For me it was never a question of whether Latinx were present in film and television but rather in what manner they are being presented. 
